---
layout: post
title: AOS 2018 TUCSON
---

Meet me at AOS 2018 in Tucson!

I've just got the announcement from the American Ornithologist Society panel that I'll be leading **TWO** events at the conference in Tuscon.

* Auriel Fournier and I will continue the tradition of teaching our R Workshop at AOS  
**"Taking the Next Step with R: Data Management, Publication Quality Graphics and Function Building”**  
we're taking notes from last year and changing the structure of the workshop a bit. This year we are continuing to teach the the Tidyverse section
and Auriels every popular GGplot course. I am changing up the structure of my portion and focusing on function building with an emphasis on automation.
I hope this will allow students get learn something new and at a pace that will hopefully stick with them.

The workshop is April 10th. 

I'll post the updates as I get them on the Course page.

*  I am leading the First meeting of the oRnithologists a collaboration to get R programmers together and show off what we've built.  
With R's ever increasing popularity and rise in amazing things being created by scientists there is a need for communication between
programmers on the latest trends, standards, and showing of the novel things being built.

As I focus heavily on user inteface with R, I will be presenting a couple of widgets I've built in Shiny and discuss the usefulness of using R
in your lab.

Come join us April 13, 2018 to talk R.

You can sign up for AOS [here](https://amornithmeeting2018.org/) 


-Matt
