---
layout: post
title: What counties can you find the most new birds in?
---
Recently I asked the question of [what counties in the US were the most underbirded](https://birderboone.github.io/eBirdEffort/). I found that there's a large portion of the country that is under-represented on ebird, particularly the Central and Southern United States. During that analysis I was surprised to discover the large discrpency in birding effort across the US. Just look at #1 county by submissions ,Los Angelos county, with an impressive 181,000 checklists submitted all time. This would rank #7 worldwide, just behind the United Kingdom if LA was considered it's own country (Luckily its not). Compare this to Martin, Kentucky with only 12 checklists submitted *EVER*. 

The reason this might matter is Los Angelos county ranks 2nd in total species seen (534) while Martin county ranks 2nd TO LAST with (71). While Southern California certainly is more birdier than the Kentucky, it's not that much birdier. We know that an increase in search effort increases bird diversity. More birders in an area inevitably find more birds, especially skilled birders, which certainly exist in LA but possibly not Martin county. Additionally, birding bring tourism to areas and interest in conservation to a region. Here in Texas countless tracks of improtant and birded lands are owned by private groups (Houston Audubon, The Nature Conservancy, Texas Ornithological Society), the state of Texas, and federal agencies (USFWS and FS). It's also important because the ever increasing studies that include eBird data, while rarely considering this large discrepancy in effort.

Granted it can be difficult to bring birders to a county. South Texas and South Jersey withstanding, most highly birded counties are in areas of high populations. Most non-birded areas are not heavily populated or just not known for high bird diversity, lowering the willingness to travel to these counties. 

Texas is a case study in trying to increase underbirded areas and highlight discovering new things across the state. Texas contains a large number of highly skilled, obsessive, or just energetic birders, and 254 counties some of which contain more cattle than people. While the greater Houston, Austin, and San Antonio area are well birded, more than half the state rarely gets visited by birders. To increase data in these counties the Texas Ornithological Society began the [Texas Century Club](http://texascenturyclub.org/index.php?title=Main_Page). Birders attempt to log 100 species in 100 counties (200 in 200 for the intrepid birder). Anybody who accomplishes this gets recognized at the next Texas Ornithological Society meeting and a plaque. Whats great is this tactic worked. To date, every county in Texas has logged atleast 129 species and 117 checklists. 
